So the last of Python's data
structures that we're gonna look at
in this part of the course, is sets.
Now if you're familiar with
mathematical set theory,
then Python's sets will make
immediate sense to you.
Now, a set in Python is unordered and
doesn't contain duplicates, so
in that respect it's
similar to a dictionary.
However, unlike a dictionary,
item's aren't accessed via a key.
In fact, a set is probably more similar
to a collection of dictionary keys.
And the set members are hashed in
the same ways dictionary keys are.
Now, the elements in a set
must be immutable objects.
Again, just like dictionary keys.
They also support the union and
intersection operations
that can be performed.
On sets.
Now sets are generally used less often
than the other data structures we've
looked at so far, but that said, they
can be very useful for cleaning up data.
And we'll look at that after we've seen
how to create and manipulate some sets.
Here in Python 3,
actually since Python 2.6, you can
define a set by using curly braces.
Which is the same way
you define a dictionary.
So let's go through it
doing it two ways so
you can see the two ways to create sets.
I'm gonna start with farm
animals equals
[NOISE]
Run that first of all.
Nothing particularly new there.
And, of course we can go for
animal in farm_animals,
print(animal).
Let's make a bit of a gap here, print And
let's create a set a different way.
So we'll do wild_animals = set.
It's a built-in function and
we'll add some, so a lion.
Oops Lion, tiger, panther,
elephant and hare.
Hare print are animals and
we can do the same for
animal in wildlife animals,
print animals.
So I can run that.
You can see the two ways to create sets.
The first one is just again
very similar to dictionary.
The form for creating dictionary but
we're not actually Supply key there,
so that's how Python knows that this
is in fact a set, and a second way,
what we do is we actually pass the list
to the set built-in function, and
created a set that way.
And not surprisingly, as you saw on
the screen there using the For loop,
we can iterate through
the members of a set and
then ultimately print them out as we
saw on the example on the screen.
Now, actually, adding a new member
to a set is also pretty easy,
using the add method, so
let's go back up to here.
So what we'll do is we'll start the int.
So we'll type farm_animals.
Let's add one for
every set that we've created.
Let's add a horse to our
[NOISE] Animal set and then for
our wild animals let's add
a horse to that as well.
[NOISE]
Okay then we can just oops
print farm animals print wild animals.
Sign we can run that And,
not surprisingly, you can see we now have
the horse added both to the farm animal
set and also to the wild animal set.
And the other thing I want to show you
there as well, if we just check the order
because there is no inherent
ordering with sets, as I mentioned.
So if we run it again, Notice how
the order of these are changing each time.
And that's because of course
the sets are actually un ordered.
And they can't really
confirm a particular order
with sets because they are by
their very nature un ordered.
Now incidentally you work in an era to
use [...] in the right hand margin.
Set, function, method, call.
That the set function call is
used to create the wild set.
The wild animals.
I'll have you click on that and select it.
It's basically saying you
could use a literal for that.
So we're just going or more information
he'll be replaced with a literal.
So it's just basically saying
if use is set here but
you could do something like that and
replace it with that now there are cases
where we have to use the set function.
And one is if we want
to create an empty set.
We can't actually create an empty set
using just the empty braces because that
actually creates an empty dictionary So
in that instance, we have to use set.
And just to show you what I mean,
we'll comment this code out for now.
So we can start off by typing empty_set
= set() and that creates an empty set.
But if we try and
do it this way, empty_set_2 =
Like so, and we do empty_set.add, A,
empty_set_2.add, noting
there's no method there.
If we run this, we get an error,
and just to confirm,
we can see the error should be on line 22.
You can see it's on line 22 there.
And that's because the line on 20,
it actually created a dictionary.
Which, of course,
doesn't have an add method.
So that's why you need
to use the set there.
If you were creating an empty set,
you'd actually physically need to call
the in-built function for
set to create that for you.
And when we used the set constructor,
when we used it earlier.
But you can see online 9
which I've commented out.
We passed the list parameter but
you can actually use any [.] object
such as a [.] or a range to do the same
thing so what we do is something like and
even equals set, range, 042.
Remember that from our
discussion of ranges.
Print even.
We can run that.
Whoops, I'll need to get
rid of that other error,
so I'll just comment that second add out,
and then run that again.
You can see that's created a set based on
those numbers, based on the range there.
And we're gonna do something
like squares_tuple.
= (4,6,9, 16, 25) and squares = set
(squares_turple) then print (squares), so
I can do it that way,
and you can see me correctly get
a set there as well So when you're
creating sets from tuples, ranges, lists,
or literally any other type of object,
you have to use the set constructor,
rather than using curly braces.
Now obviously in this simple
example I've got on screen,
we could do away with the tuple and just
enter the numbers within curly braces, but
the example is showing you that
a tuple can be used to generate a set.
And it's most likely you'd probably,
at some point,
be wanting to do that when
you're programming in Path.
So hopefully, now you're getting an idea,
seeing these numbers consistently come up.
There really is no guarantee that any
item's gonna be printed in order,
and it's really emphasized the unordered
nature of sets in general.
And as you saw in the first
example with the even numbers
They're not even necessarily
appearing in order,
even though they were
actually generated in order.
A very important point there.
So, unfortunately their lack of an order
makes it slightly harder to see
what's going on.
But, let's continue on anyway, and have a
look at it, now using union, intersection,
and difference, as well as subsets.
So, what we're gonna start
with is using union.
So, I'm just gonna comment this other
code out Union being a function of sets.
So we'll put our even in again so even
equals set range, so we'll write 42 again.
Print even, print len even to
establish how many entries there are,
then we'll put squares.
Probably should of just copied and
pasted some of these.
Squares underscore tuple equals 4,
6, 9, 16, 25 again.
Squares = set(squares_tuple).
And we'll just do a print(squares) and
you'll see why we're
doing this in a minute.
Squares_tuple, print(squares) and
print(len(squares)) because the number
of elements is going to make sense and
it's going to be important shortly.
Now, if we go ahead and introduce the
union commands, we're gonna talk print,
even dot union squares, and
print len Even.union(squares).
So if you run that, and
scroll this across, so
that you can see that the new set
that we've created on line 38 and
39 now contains the numbers 9 and 25.
And they obviously weren't in
the original set of even numbers.
And incidentally that's exactly
the same set of squares dot union even.
So we're working back the other
way just to confirm that.
We can also do a print squares.union
even You can see everything exactly
the same output by doing that.
So that's using a union.
Now the intersection of two sets includes
members that are present in both sets.
And again they only appear in
the intersection set once.
Now you can perform intersection using the
and instead of calling the intersection
method Well I wouldn't have used the and
on sets part and
just calls intersection, the in-built
intersection function for you.
So just to see how that would work, let's
just close down the run window again.
So let's just put a bit
of a print here to put
a bit of a gap between the other output,
times 40.
So if we do print Even .intersection
squares, print.
Again, we can do it this way, as well.
We can, using the ampersand, squares.
But again, using the ampersand internally,
Python is just using
the .intersection function anyway.
And likewise, if you do a print squares.
Thought intersection.
Even print squares.
So if you run that code.
combination.
We'll run that again.
You can see we've got
exactly the same output.
These are the numbers that
are present in both sets.
And again looking up here and our original
even set, the number 16 appeared there and
in the second output number 16
appeared and likewise 4 and 4 and 6.
And all the other numbers only appeared
in 1 but not both of the original sets.
So, bottom line here is
using the ampersand.
It really doesn't matter what you
call the intersection method.
You still get the same result either way.
Now, sets can also be subtracted, and
there's two ways to specify a subtraction.
Which way you use is really
just a matter of preference.
Now, we'll cheat a little bit before we
check that because all though Python's
quite happily dealing
with unordered lists,
Us humans find them hard to read when of
course there's more than a few members.
So to make it easier to see what's going
on, what we're gonna do is use the sorted
function to sort the results
before printing them out.
Now this is not necessary
when dealing with sets.
I just wanna make that clear.
We're only doing it here to
make it easier for us to see
what the various methods are actually
doing with the actual sets themselves.
So subtracting set b from set
a removes any item that exists in
set b from set a, if that makes sense.
Just to say that again, so
subtracting set b from set
a removes any item that exists in
set b from The first set said a.
So with our example, so
let's just comment this code out.
And type some code in.
And what I'll do is I'll just
copy this first bit of code.
We do need a little bit of that, and
we'll just make a little space down the
end here, so we can see what we're doing.
So we'll un-comment that.
So we're gonna have our even set again,
but
this time we're gonna do print sorted
even to see what it looks like sorted.
Then we'll leave our square tuple
in again, and we'll put Squares =
setsquares_tuple and
then we'll also print.
Source it squares.
So, you've got a handle
on what it looks like.
All right.
So, let's now do a,
we'll put a heading here just
to show what we're about to do.
So, even.
Money squares.
So do that first, print, sorted.
Even dot difference, since this is what's
subtracted, is difference squares.
So, and print sorted even takes squares,
so the .difference and the minus,
the subtract, does the same thing.
And we'll try squares,
cuz we'll do a heading first, so squares
Minus even, so first, why don't we print
squares.difference even,
and print Squares tack even.
The same deal here using
the dot difference or
using the subtract, the difference
methods exactly the same as using minus.
So which way you use depends on which you
find more readable, in general probably
the recommendation would be that
the difference method is better because it
makes it clear that you're working
with sets which you may not know.
If you're just looking at, say, line 62,
you wouldn't know those
variables are sets.
Or if you saw a .difference,
you'd know that that method
is only applicable to sets.
So let's run this.
So what you can see in the first example
is the subtracting Squares from even,
removes the value 4, 16 and
26 from even, leaving only 9 and 25 and
go the other way subtracting even
from squares, remove 4,16 and
36 from squares, again leaving only 9 and
25 So I'm going to stop the video here
cuz it's getting a little bit long.
In the next video we'll continue our
discussion, and we'll move forward and
we'll talk about the update difference
method as well, which is very similar
to the difference method and the minus,
that we've talked about just now.
So, we'll see you in the next video.